- [Instructor] We have our service
and client integration test on both end screen.
But since they deviate in one or three bit name,
they won't be able to work together.
We want to make sure that any change on the service
immediately impacts the client with a failing test.
One way to get such assurance
is by using Spring Cloud Contract.
We will go ahead and define a contract in Groovy.
In our students service application,
under test, resources, contracts,
we will create a new file,
Should Return Student.groovy.
This is the default directory
where spring scans for all contracts.
Don't be alarmed if you have not used Groovy before.
Knowledge of the language is not really needed
as DSL is statically typed to make it programmer readable
without any knowledge of the DSL itself.
Let's start by typing contract.make.
First we add the description, should return a student.
Then in the request,
where we are going to define what a request will look like.
We expect method of type get,
and we'll arrive on the /students/1.
And then we describe how response would look like.
First by adding HTTP status, OK.
and content type application JSON.
Underbody, we can define response as JSON literal,
or as an object which gets converted to JSON.
Spring Cloud Contract provides the Maven plugin.
And when running our Maven test score,
this is going to read our contract
and create an integration test.
Since we're using MockMVC to verify our integration tests,
we need to tell our Spring Cloud Contract plugin
to use MockMVC as test mode.
Let's run a Maven test call.
Notice that our test failed but reached one.
Noticed the class name Contract Verifier Test failed.
We didn't write this class.
it was generated by Spring Cloud Contract.
We can open it in IntelliJ
and see that it contains test method for API.
Each failed because this is just a unit test.
In order to fix it,
it needs to be extend base class
where we can set up spring integration test
and Mock behavior.
Since we don't have our base class yet,
let's create one and call it Student Controller Base Class.
In the Base Class,
we need to do similar setup
as we did in previous integration test.
And that means,
first, by setting up web MVC test slides,
and second mock out student service
get used by the end points.
We can just copy paste the same configuration
from the previous integration test,
and add it within the new method
which needs to run before each test.
Let's call this method before,
an annotated with before each.
We also need to pass MockMVC bean
by calling rest assured MockMVC.mockMVC
We're not done yet.
Between Maven plugin,
we need to point out where is the Base Class.
Now, let's rerun Maven clean and install.
And we see it worked.
Apart from running the test in a local main repository,
it also stopped three things.
Our students service jar,
students service pom,
and students service stubs jar
which contains WireMock stub,
we can use on the client's side.
Producer side is done,
we can now go to students-client application
and use that stub.
Since the stub will create an end point for us,
we don't need to mock out responses in our client.
We can just get rid of out to configure WireMock annotation
and to stop configuration.
What we need is stub runner,
Here in the annotation,
we need to put out to configure Stub runner
and provide me even coordinates
for a construct definition,
so it knows from where to pull this stub from.
This means providing ID of artifact.
We will use plus to find the latest version
and run it on port 8080.
Make sure port is aligned with the port used by web client.
Now we can run test again
and we see it failed.
It failed because our test was not able to find value
for students name.
Let's fix it easily by changing from student name to name.
Rerun our test.
And there you have it,
our test passed.
It was fast, we didn't need to mock up anything
and it caught the bug we introduced earlier.